---
aimtask: Gel of PCR, Digest of pUC19 (EcoRI, HindIII), ON cultures, Gel electrophoresis of unclear samples  
protocol: "-"
date: 2019-08-29  
participants: Felix Pfister, Leon Altmann 
---    
## Protocol  
  > _**Notes**_

The PCR samples from 28.8 were applied to two 0,8% Agarose Gel and ran at 130V for 1 hour.

  

Gel 1:

Ladder K1 c1 K1 c2 K1 c3 K1c4 K1 c5 K2a c1 K2a c2 K2a c3 K2a c4 K2a c5

Gel 2:

Ladder K2b c1 K2b c2 K2b c3 K2b c4 K2b c5 Control

The PCR was performed to see whether the desired Insert was implemented into the vector, as the Gel from 28.8 allowed no precise determination.

The PCR Water-control showed a clear band at approximately 1,2 kb. This band was also seen in every other samples, hinting towards contamination of the water or PCR mix.

Other than that, the PCR samples did not show bands that would allow the assumption of successful Gibson assembly. Probably all the vectors are empty.

Another Digestion of pUC19 was performed to exclude potential problems with the blunt cutting enzymes due to re-ligation.

EcoRI and HindIII were used and were expected to yield a 2,6 kb and a 0,1 kb fragment.  
Of EcoRI and HindIII a 1:10 Dilution was performed for easier pipetting.

Digestion Mix:

|||
|--- |--- |
|Name|Amount [µl]|
|DNA (pUC Midi 467,5 ng/µl)|4,27|
|CutSmart x10|5|
|EcoRI|1|
|HindIII|2|
|Water|37,73|
|Total Amount|50|

Digestion @ 37°C for 1h;

Inactivation @ 80°C for 20min;

Samples applied to a 0,8% Agarose Gel: Ladder pUC19

The digest gave the same result as every other digest with blunt end enzymes, indicating that the pUC19 sample we use is in fact contaminated, or no pUC19 at all!

To clarify which of the stored samples in the freezer @ -20°C and in the refrigerator @ 4°C are still of use Gel electrophoresis was performed.

|||||||||||||||
|--- |--- |--- |--- |--- |--- |--- |--- |--- |--- |--- |--- |--- |--- |
|Gel 1 part 1||||||||||||||
|DNA Ladder|Gelex K2a 16.8|Gelex K3b 16.8|Gelex K4a 16.8|Gelex K4b 16.8|Gelex K2b 09.7|Gelex K3b 09.7|Gelex K4b 09.7|Gelex K4b 09.7|PC|Vector 4b/a|3ab pACYC184 p3|Psec digested Gelex 21.08|Attempt 3 pSec|
|Gel 1 part 2||||||||||||||
|DNA Ladder|K2ab 2 30.07|K2a 1 30.07|K2a 2 30.07|K2b 2 30.07|K2b 1 30.07|Gelex K1 CHO-S 8.8|Gelex K2a CHO-S 8.8|Gelex K2b CHO-S 8.8|Purified CFP 9.8|/|3ab 1|3ab 2|3ab 3|
|Gel 2||||||||||||||
|DNA Ladder|25.8 K1 c1|25.8 K1 c2|25.8 K1 c3|25.8 K1 c4|25.8 K2a c1|25.8 K2a c3|25.8 K2a c4|25.8 K2a c6|DNA CHO K2b c1 25.8|DNA CHO K2b c2 25.8|DNA CHO K2b c3 25.8|DNA CHO K2b c4 25.8||
|Gel 3||||||||||||||
|Ladder|2a|2a 1|2a 2|2b|2b 1|4ab|3ab|||||||

**Protocol**

  

  

  
**Calculations and Results**

  

  

> **Problems faced / possible error causes**

  

  

  

****Materials used****

  

  

  

> ****Files used / generated****

  

  

  

  

> **Pending tasks, next steps, comments for next people in the Lab**

-   Decision which of the tested samples remains usefull and should therefore be kept in storage;
-   Find alternative to pUC19 for the measurement part
    -   One can  **not**  perform blunt end cloning with the ordered gBlocks
    -   However it should be possible with the PCr products of the gBlocks as the have 5' phosphate groups

!>insert

Gel_1_doppel.png
Gel_2_einzel_heller.png
Gel_2_einzel.png
Gel_3_einzel_klein.png
