---
aimtask: Control of overhang PCR, purification of the cut pACYC184
protocol: Monarch DNA Gel Extraction Kit
date: 2019-08-06
participants: Martin Borgmann, Lena Schorr
---
* Control gel:
  * used 1% agarose gel for samples of the overhang PCR and the cut vector
  * run gel at 120 V for 1 h
* purification of the cut vector with **Monarch DNA Gel Extraction Kit:**

..1. Excise the DNA fragment from the agarose gel, taking care to trim excess agarose.Transfer to a 1.5 ml microfuge tube, and weigh the gel slice. Minimize exposure to UV light.
..2. Add 4 volumes of Gel Dissolving Buffer to the gel slice (e.g., 400 μl buffer per 100 μl or 100 mg agarose).
..3. Incubate the sample between 37-55°C (typically 50°C), vortexing periodically until the gel slice is completely dissolved (generally 5-10 minutes). For DNA fragments 8 kb, an additional 1.5 volumes of water should be added after the slice is dissolved to mitigate the tighter binding of larger pieces of DNA (e.g., 100 μl gel slice: 400 μl Gel Dissolving Buffer: 150 μl water).
..4. Insert column into collection tube and load sample onto the column. Spin for 1 minute, then discard flow-through.
..5. Re-insert column into collection tube. Add 200 μl DNA Wash Buffer and spin for 1 minute. Discarding flow-through is optional.
..6. Repeat step 5.
..7. Transfer column to a clean 1.5 ml microfuge tube. Use care to ensure that the tip of the column does not come into contact with the flow-through. If in doubt, re-spin for 1 minute.
..8. Add ≥ 6 μl of DNA Elution Buffer to the center of the matrix. Wait for 1 minute, and spin for 1 minute to elute DNA. Typical elution volumes are 6-20 μl. Nuclease-free water (pH 7-8.5) can also be used to elute the DNA. Yield may slightly increase if a larger volume of DNA Elution Buffer is used, but the DNA will be less concentrated. For larger size DNA (≥ 10 kb), heating the elution buffer to 50°C prior to use can improve yield.

* measurement of purified vector: 4.9 ng/µL
* storage of purified cut vector at -20 °C
* digestion of purified cut vector with EcoRV-HF enzyme

* run gel with samples of the overhang PCR of K1, K2a, K3a from the previous day, the digested vector and uncut vector as control
* extraction of the digested vector of the gel, store at 4 °C

**Problems faced:**
* Control gel was negative, only K3a was visible in the overhang PCR
* Gel for purification was empty (broken slide), had to be repeated
* Second gel also negative except for K3a