---
aimtask: Midi-prep of overnight-culture from DH5a with puc19; Digestion of puc19 with SmaI at 37°C
protocol: Midi prep protocol
date: 2019-08-20  
participants: Lena Schorr
---    
## Protocol  
**Notes**

-   **performance of a midi prep of the overnight culture of DH5a with puC19**
    -   2 x 25ml from overnight culture
    -   See procotol below
    -   467,5 ng/µl (total: 400µl)
    -   Storage in -20°C in 15ml falcon

  

-   **Digestion of the puC19 vector with SmaI under new conditions**
    -   all materials in the fridge of TW (-20°C)
    -   digestion at 37°C for 1 h
    -   Inactivation at 80°C for 20 minutes
    -   Storage at -20°C (annotated with attempt 1; attempt 2)  

| Name | Attempt 1 [µl]| Attempt 2 [µl] |
|--- |--- |--- |
|DNA|10µl (=6µg)|20µl (=12µg)|
|CutSmart x10|5|5|
|AntarcticBuffer x10|5|5|
|Antarctic Phosphatase|1|1|
|SmaI|0,5|0,5|
|H2O|28,5|18,5|

**Protocol Midi:**

1. Harvest overnight bacterial culture by centrifuging at 6000 x g for 15 min at 4°C. (at the fuge in the Behrensen Lab!!!)

2. Resuspend the bacterial pellet in 4 ml Buffer P1.

3. Add 4 ml Buffer P2, mix thoroughly by vigorously inverting 4–6 times and incubate at room temperature (15–25°C) for 5 min. If using LyseBlue reagent, the solution will turn blue.

4. Add 4 ml Buffer P3, mix thoroughly by vigorously inverting 4–6 times. Incubate on ice for 15 min. If using LyseBlue reagent, mix the solution until it is colorless.

5. Centrifuge at ≥20,000 x g for 30 min at 4°C. Re-centrifuge the supernatant at ≥20,000 x g for 15 min at 4°C. 

6. Equilibrate a QIAGEN-tip 100 by applying 4 ml Buffer QBT, and allow column to empty by gravity flow.

7. Apply the supernatant from step 5 to the QIAGEN-tip and allow it to enter the resin by gravity flow.

8. Wash the QIAGEN-tip with 2 x 10 ml Buffer QC. Allow Buffer QC to move through the QIAGEN-tip by gravity flow.

9. Elute DNA with 5 ml Buffer QF into a clean 15 ml vessel. For constructs larger than 45 kb, prewarming the elution buffer to 65°C may help to increase the yield.

10. Precipitate DNA by adding 3.5 ml roomtemperature isopropanol to the eluted DNA and mix. Centrifuge at ≥15,000 x g for 30 min at 4°C. Carefully decant the supernatant.

11. Wash the DNA pellet with 2 ml room-temperature 70% ethanol and centrifuge at ≥15,000 x g for 10 min. Carefully decant supernatant.

12. Air-dry pellet for 5–10 min and redissolve DNA in a suitable volume of appropriate buffer (e.g., TE buffer, pH 8.0, or 10 mM Tris·Cl, pH 8.5).

  


  

  

  

  

**Pending tasks, next steps, comments for next people in the Lab**

-   0,8% agarose gel of the digested puc vector (attempt 1 and 2)
-   Performing gibson assembly with construct 1, and 2a+b in psec for CHOs
